Hi. Welcome to
this EarSketch video
about musical form
and function.
My name is Léa,
and in this video
I'll explain
what musical form is
and how you can write
your own functions in EarSketch.
As you might know,
most songs have a structure.
This structure can be composed
of different levels.
Let’s say three examples
of musical levels.
First let's talk about beats.
Beats are regular
time intervals.
They are the shortest time
divisions in your song.
For example, I will play
an EarSketch script
and clap on the beat.
[faint beat and clapping]
The beat duration depends
on your setTempo function
at the beginning of your script.
If your tempo is fast, your beat
duration is going to be short.
But if your tempo is slower,
your beat duration
will be longer.
The second musical level we're
looking at contains measures.
A measure contains
a fixed number of beats.
In EarSketch, one measure
is equal to four beats,
which is pretty common
in Western popular music.
The timeline in the digital
audio workstation
indicates time both in seconds
and in measures.
The third musical level I want
to talk to you about
is the section level.
Sections are broader
musical entities,
and contrary to beats
or measures
they do not have
a fixed duration.
A song is composed
of several sections,
each of which represents
an idea or a feeling.
Examples of sections are intro,
outro, verse, chorus, or solo.
When composing music,
it's good to plan ahead
and see what your song structure
will be before you start coding.
This will help having
a good song structure
and code structure.
In this particular task,
you will be asked to create
a song with the ABA form.
ABA means that you have
three sections,
and that the first
and last sections are the same.
Now let's see how functions
can help
with the structure of your song.
You already know that functions
take some inputs
and convert them to outputs.
So far, you've only been using
EarSketch functions
like setTempo,
fitMedia, or setEffect,
but you can also write
your own functions
called user defined functions.
This greatly helps organize
your code for two main reasons.
First, it will reduce
the length of your code.
A function is like a variable
that contains
a set of instructions.
This way, when you need
to use the function,
you just have to call it—
which takes one line—
instead of having to rewrite
all the instructions.
Second, it helps
organize your code
and make it easier to read.
It's important that you give
your functions names
that indicate what they do.
For example, if you write
a function to create a verse,
you can call it “verse”
or “verse 1.”
Now let's see an example
of user defined function.
Let's start with writing
our function definition.
You will need to use
the keyword function
and then the function name
that you chose.
As you have seen before,
you always add parenthesis
after function name.
Between the parenthesis,
you will write the inputs
that you want for your function.
These inputs are the ones
you will have to provide
when you call the function
later in your code.
I recommend that you give
precise names to your inputs
so that it's easier
to know what they need to be.
For example here,
since we will use the function
to create a song section,
we will use the inputs
of the beginning
and end of the section.
So we can call them startMeasure
and endMeasure.
This way when we call
the function,
we can just indicate at which
measure the section should start
and at which measure
it will stop.
Then we have the function
instructions,
which are indented.
Here our instructions
are just two fitMedia.
We select sounds and tracks
for this fitMedia
and for the start and end time
we use the inputs,
starMeasure and endMeasure.
You are free to choose
any inputs that you like.
You can also call them
whatever you like.
So if you want to change them
to “startTime” and “endTime,”
you can do that.
You just need to make sure
that you use your inputs
in the instructions
with the same spelling.
So this is it
for the function definition.
Now if we want to use
the function,
we have to call it.
Let's say we want to use this
section from measure 1 to 5.
Then I just have
to write verse(1,5).
One is the start time input,
and 5 is the end time input.
Let's see what happens
when we run the code.
If we want to use the function
again later in the song,
for example
from measure 10 to 15,
we just have to write
“verse(10,15).”
Now let's run it
and you see that now
we have two verse sections,
from measure 1 to 5
and then from measure 10 to 15,
and you can add more verses
if you'd like.
And so as you can see, instead
of writing four fitMedias,
one for each of the sections,
you just write two lines
in your function
and then you call your function
as often as you want to call it.
And that's it for our video
about form and function.
Thank you for watching.